[Music]
how's it going everyone this is going to
be a video over the next day model or
the next candle model or simply using
the previous candle to anticipate the
next this is going to be very similar to
my daily bias video but with some slight
differences so let's get into the PDF so
the first thing we need to understand
and this is directly from my daily bias
video so if you have any confusion
please go check out that video I'll link
it in the description below is defining
a reversal versus a continuation with
defining a reversal I focus on price
taking out its previous candle high or
low and then closing back into the range
this allows me to anticipate the
following candle to have a
continuation so if price has a bearish
reversal here there is a bearish
continuation following or a bullish
reversal here a bullish continuation
following that now with a continuation I
am anticipating price not to reverse as
it took out its previous candle low and
closed outside so if I'm anticipating
price to continue then we would just
continue lower so you can see here we
close over our previous candle's high
and then we continue in the following
candle so let's take a look at this
before we get into some trading view
examples so you can see here we have
created a range we failed to to close
over this previous High we go to this
low here we fail to close below this
swing low and then right here we have
closed over our previous candle high so
with what we just learned in the
previous slide I would be anticipating a
continuation higher on this day we have
now closed over our previous high once
again so looking for a continuation
higher this is where there is a little
conflict we have taken out our swing
high on the left however we have Al
closed over our previous candle one of
those is telling us bearish while the
other is telling us bullish so with this
I will wait for another candle here with
this candle we do have a nice bearish
candle but we have not closed over our
previous high or low so now here on the
next candle we have closed below our
previous candle's low so I'd anticipate
a continuation lower now after this
continuation lower we look back and we
have had 3 days of expansion lower which
generally indicates we can enter a new
phase of price being retracement
consolidation or reversal so here we can
look for the next day it either goes
lower and I miss it or we get a
retracement in which I can look to get
on side on the following reversal so
here we have an inside bar it does not
give us any more information so we let
another candle form here on this candle
we reach into a point of Interest with
this fair value Gap we're also closing
the body below this opposing candle or
this order block and we are closing ins
inside our previous candle's high so if
we have a reversal here I could
anticipate a continuation lower on the
following candle and you can see this
continuation occurs and continues lower
as it continues to close below its
previous candle's low so let's hop into
a few examples of this on trading View
and we'll also take a look at the lower
time frame price action as well as
getting on side with these moves so here
we are on the daily chart and we're just
going to work through some of this to go
over the fail to close outside the range
or the close back inside the range so
you can see here we have closed back
inside the range so I would anticipate
price to go lower the next day now with
this move lower the next day you can see
we have not closed outside the range but
it is a bearish candle so this is
usually where I have some conflict right
and I'm going to let another candle form
but mechanically I would be looking for
a move
higher here we get a move higher we have
a sweep and a close back inside the
range so mechanically looking for a move
lower and you can see it already has
failed once and that is because nothing
always works 100% of the time but as we
continue we now have a close outside the
range so looking for another bullish day
we get another bullish day we have
closed outside the range so another
bullish
day and here is where I start to wonder
okay we have had this continued
expansion for for multiple candles we're
closing outside the range this is where
we can enter a new phase of price
delivery we have taken out our high and
then close back inside the range so with
that I would be
bearish we get a very shallow sweep of
this previous day low and then we close
back inside the range bullish and over
this opposing candle cuz it has wretched
into a fair value Gap the down close
candle into that so we'll mark that out
but it has not taken this previous day
high yet and so with a bullish idea it
sweeps out this previous high and then
we come back into the range right so
this would be bearish but that is why is
important to blend with the phases of
price delivery right as we go through an
expansion I can then anticipate a new
phase of price delivery if it's not
going to be retracement or reversal I
don't want to get caught up in this
consolidation going through it
mechanically we have swept out this
previous day high closed back inside so
I would be
bearish so I can be bullish because we
have swept out this low and closed back
inside the previous and I would want to
see bullish price action to the other
side of the
range and here with this move to the
other side of the range we have closed
over our previous day high we have yet
to close over this swing point right so
this is where there is a little conflict
if I had to choose I would be bullish
because of this strong closure in
candle and here we get a move move
higher sweep out our previous candle
high and then close back in the range so
it can be
bearish right and then now we get a move
higher so you can see our Trend into our
consolidation our little manipulation
and then we expand higher I wanted to
show an example like this because it is
not always going to be perfect right I
use it many times but I prefer to blend
it with the phases of price delivery to
make more sense of it if I was always
trying to short the top of this range in
a bullish trend it's not going to work
as well as a sweep of a low in a bullish
Trend to trade the other side so as we
continue along with this trend here we
have a closure outside the range so
anticipating a bullish day here we have
a bullish day that takes out our
previous candle high and closes back in
so I'd be looking for a bearish
day here we get a bearish day that
sweeps out our previous candle low
closes back in So then a bullish day
right here we now have a sweep of a
swing point a closure back in So then a
bearish day and here now that we have
closed outside the range as well as
outside our previous day low looking for
a bearish
day now here once again we have closed
outside our previous candle low so
looking for a bearish day and we sweep
out previous candles low and we get a
very strong close back inside the range
so looking for a bullish
day we have a closure outside the range
so looking for a bullish day and now you
can see we red back into this volume in
bonds or the opposing candle close back
inside the range so looking for a
bearish day and here we have closed
below our previous candle low so looking
for a bearish day here we get a bearish
day and we sweep out a swing Point we've
closed outside the range so looking for
another bearish day we do not get a
bearish day in this case after sweeping
this low we get a strong aggressive move
higher so with that could be looking for
a bullish
day and here we get a candle that sweeps
out our previous candle's high and
closes back inside the range so
anticipating a bearish day let's hop
down to the hourly chart to see how I
could actually get on side with this
move so here we are on the lower time
frames you can see our candle closure
here on the right and I would Mark out
this change in the state of delivery
here from the high and that gives me my
confirmation to this bias and if we look
we have a series of candles reaching
into that opposing candle and then
closing below this is now a propulsion
block and I would like to see price
respect the lower half of this so if I
wanted to get on side on this move I
could really just take a trade at the
open or when we make an open high and
then put my stop on this invalidation so
if I was to just enter at the open put
my stop on that high and then Target 2 R
let's see what happens
and there we go you can see we put in an
open ey low and then we close in the
lows right so would' be hitting the 2 r
or those failure swings from the
previous day low and even the low from
Tuesday so that is just an example of
positioning myself within this idea well
let's hop into a few more examples so
here we are on bitcoin I've had quite a
few comments on doing examples over it
so here we are you can see we have swept
out our previous candle low and that
gives me my anticipation for a bullish
bias the following day so if I drop down
to the hourly time frame let's see if we
have any bullish price action so into
the next day we drop lower initially
into 0.5 of this opposing candle and get
an aggressive move higher so that would
be my indication that I'd want to see an
open low and then have this price
continue to the other side of the range
and higher
so here on the next day after we close
you can see we have closed over our
previous candle high so I would
anticipate that to move higher so as we
let this continue
out we end up just consolidating for the
day which doesn't really give me an
indication of where I want price to go
but if I think about this we have
expansion into a consolidation so I
would look to see if we can have some
sort of manipulation lower to get on
side with a move higher
as we let this go we don't get that
manipulation of the lows you can see we
open up the next day immediately
continue
higher and then we get this aggressive
move higher as well and then back lower
so quite some volatility on this day and
that's why I personally wait for the
closures of the higher time frame candle
to give me direction and you can see
with this closure we closing back inside
the range so i' look for price to go
lower right and I have my change in the
state of delivery right here so that is
a possible level I could use to get on
side with
this here you can see we get a reach
back into that change in the state of
delivery or into that order block and
then we have a closure forming a
propulsion block so with this I could
take an entry the close of this my stop
on that high and then looking for 2
r or looking to Target these lows over
here so let's see how this
goes and you can see we do get our drop
22 R there and so if we let this
continue out let's see if the lows get
taken
out and the lows do get taken out so as
you watch this continue we had that
closure back inside the range a closure
lower with a large Wick showing this
bearish price action and then an
aggressive move lower that closed
outside the range now now if you notice
on this candle here we have closed back
inside the range so with that I'd want
to see price trade higher so if I wanted
to get on side on this if I was in an
entry here I need to have my stop on the
low so we can take a look at how that
would work out so if I'm just in here as
I was a little late on replay to it
where would my 2R
be right here so let's see how this
works
out and then we have a strong closure in
this previous day over previous day high
so looking for this to continue
higher and with this next day we failed
to close outside the range so we get a
retracement or expansion into
retracement so if this closes bullish
I'm anticipating this to be a
retracement to continue higher and not a
reversal to go take out my stop
loss so we have a nice close back inside
the
range so looking for this to to continue
higher and that's where I could add to
my position if I
wanted and then there we get a move
higher through RTP so let's go back out
to the daily chart just to see what this
looks like real quick and you can see
what we just went through was this
failed to close outside the range this
move higher this failed to close outside
the range this move lower the sweep of
this low closing back inside the range
the move higher and then this was the
retracement failed to close outside the
range to move higher so hopefully that
makes sense and you can see how it is
used on the daily chart however similar
to my fractal model that I teach this is
a fractal concept so it can be used on
all time frames so let's take a look at
using it on the hourly time frame so
here we are on the daily time frame and
you can see we have wretch into this
odor block or this opposing candle we
have had a move higher to close outside
the range and then an inside bar right
so this doesn't give us much info but
just looking at the individual candle if
you've seen my open high low close video
I viewed this as a reversal candle to
trade higher so with that I'm looking
for price to go take out a swing point
or at least over its previous day high
so if we drop down to our lower time
frames here or in this case the hour
let's see how this works
out so you can see we open and trade
higher immediately right now we go take
out our previous day high which is what
I would be looking for but just as I
view this with the weekly profile when
Monday and Tuesday or even Wednesday
trade higher without forming an
established low on Monday this is what
I'm looking to trade back to the weekly
open on a weekly profile so it's the
same with the intraday profile or the
daily profile looking to trade back to
our daily open or the lows because of a
lack of a low created off this open so
as we continue do we get a
reversal yes we get a reversal here with
a closed through this move that made the
high right and swept out this liquidity
so I'd viewed this as my change in the
state of delivery now let's see if there
are any failures to close or any
reversals to get on the
side so you can see if I just wanted to
take my CISD entry that would be
possible but what do we notice right
here we had an aggressive move lower or
an expansion and then a slight move
higher which I would view as a
retracement now with that retracement
you can see we have swept out our
previous candle high and closed back
into the range so I would anticipate
bearish price action following so
dropping down to the 5 minute how would
I get on side with this well you can see
I would use this as my change in the
state of delivery as this is the series
or the move that made the high and we
have a ace vshape reversal here and if
we have Clos below that low which we
haven't yet then I would be able to get
on side so let's see what happens right
here we would be a ble to get on side as
we have closed through confirming this
high so entering with my stop on that
high looking for 2
R let's see what
happens and there we go a very quick two
R so you can see the same concept that I
used on the daily chart can be used on
the hourly chart so if we go back to the
hourly here you can see aligning it with
the phases of price expansion into this
retracement which which is paired with
the closure or the failure to close
outside the range giving me the
anticipation for a bearish price action
on the following candle so expansion
into retracement into expansion right
and so if we let this continue out we go
and make some new lows but that is just
what I wanted to show that it can be
used on The Daily time frame as well as
any time frame because it is a fractal
concept just as my fractal model shows
now I hope you enjoyed this video and
found it helpful it is the foundation to
my bias the PDF will be linked in the
Discord and if you do want to learn more
about my fractal model there is a free
trial going on currently for the group I
hope you have a great rest of your day
and I'll see you guys next time have a
good one